what is on page SEO
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly email where I'm sharing actual
marketing and website tips useful
podcasts free guides goodies resources
and much more each and every Monday to
kick off your week with a bang why not
give it a shot over at businessgrowth
dot email Swanson SEO can be split into
two main parts
Technical and content so looking at
technical first Google recently at the
time of recording this rolled out a
update called cool web vitals so take a
big emphasis on things like mobile first
design making sure your website works
super well on mobile it gives people a
great experience on mobile tablet and PC
it's easy to navigate around and it's
just has a good interface isn't
confusing and is easy to find exactly
what you're looking for in minimal time
possible making sure your page loads
nice and fast so if you haven't yet
check your page speed on Google page
speed insights and you can get a quick
idea of how quick your site is you want
it really one second or less on mobile
and PC and Google page should be
insights will also give you actionable
tips and if your site is a bit slow on
what you need to look at
so then technically you need to think
about things like Google doesn't Google
wants your site to be as informative and
helpful to people as possible so with
your chosen keywords there's no point
trying to stuff them all into a home
page or a one-page website because
that's just going to give people a poor
experience and not help your ranking at
all so for example if you're a service
based company
you want to have a page on your site
features the main services you offer
along with if you serve different
locations in each of the main locations
you offer along with things like useful
resources contact page team page so
breaking down
the Search terms so they fit to relevant
pages so each page is technically sound
in terms of things like your meta title
and your meta description so that's when
you do a Google Search and you see the
listing each listing has got a title a
description of the listing that's the
meta title and description your page
titles what you see in your your tab at
the top that describes the page
um The Heading tags so when you go on a
page you've got a range of title tags
and the intro the page things like image
alt tags
and essentially reviewing all the site
from a navigation standpoint speed
standpoint user experience
um and structure standpoint and making
sure it's all technically sound it's
aligned with the Search terms you're
targeting and also follows best
practices in terms of user experience
user interface mobile views and Page
speed and there's a fair bit to it but
that's in a nutshell
now once you've sorted that you want to
look at the content side of things
so Google loves fresh relevant
informative detailed content
so looking at your website not just as a
shop window even if it is an online
store but also as a useful resource so
it can help educate and inform people
around your industry and to get them
trained up on it help them learn
something new so you become a trusted
resource and they trust in you to
recommend you and also buy from you or
get in touch with you so you'll have a
bunch of keywords that you're targeting
from your research stage we want to make
sure that those keywords link through to
relevant pages
and we want to make sure the content on
each page is as helpful as possible so
if you have a service or product page
perhaps that's got some written copy
perhaps that's got perhaps if you're on
a service page it's got some photos
maybe it's got a useful guide maybe
there is an infographic explaining how
it works and maybe you've got resources
section on your site with podcasts with
blog articles and maybe blog articles
cover common customers questions so
making sure your website's methodical
easy to navigate the content is as
informative and helpful as possible one
tip you can do is you can check out your
competitors especially the ones using
the tools I mentioned earlier for
keyword research see what pages they're
ranking for now get ideas from their
page and then make your web pages your
detail Pages even more helpful
informative if they've done a video make
it make one that's more comprehensive
likewise infographics and just one up
them in every aspect possible to make
your site the go-to for your industry
and there you have it I hope this guide
has been of use as always if you enjoyed
the episode a quick subscribe if you're
on YouTube or rating if you're on the
audio podcast goes a really long way and
is very much appreciated and with that I
should catch you on the next episode
cheers